docs/cidi.md, before:

# Overview



### Docker commands

* From base folder build and push test smoker image 
* must do a npm run build first for smoker
* ` docker build -f apps/smoker/Dockerfile --platform linux/arm/v7  -t benjr70/smart_smoker:smokerTest .`
* ` docker push benjr70/smart_smoker:smokerTest`

* pull and run smoker image on pi
* `docker pull benjr70/smart_smoker:smokerTest`
* `docker run -p 8080:8080 benjr70/smart_smoker:smokerTest`

* From base folder build and push test device service image 
* ` docker build -f apps/device-service/Dockerfile --platform linux/arm/v7  -t benjr70/smart_smoker:device-serviceTest .`
* ` docker push benjr70/smart_smoker:device-serviceTest`

* pull and run device service on pi
* `docker pull benjr70/smart_smoker:device-serviceTest`
* `docker run --privileged  --device=/dev/ttyUSB0 -p 3000:3000 benjr70/smart_smoker:device-serviceTest`


### Network

Using Tailscale to manage my network, this provides a private internal network for all devices. 

Tailscale creates the ssl cert and key and also serves the sites
I used the tailscale funnel feature to expose the frontend and backend to the broad web for the cloud app
that url is https://smokecloud.tail74646.ts.net for the frontend and https://smokecloud.tail74646.ts.net:8443 for the backend

use command tailscale funnel status should result in this output if correctly set up

    ubuntu@ubuntu:/etc/nginx/sites-available$ sudo tailscale funnel status

    # Funnel on:
    #     - https://smokecloud.tail74646.ts.net
    #     - https://smokecloud.tail74646.ts.net:8443

    https://smokecloud.tail74646.ts.net (Funnel on)
    |-- / proxy http://127.0.0.1:80

    https://smokecloud.tail74646.ts.net:8443 (Funnel on)
    |-- / proxy http://127.0.0.1:3001

To get there you must to a `tailscale serve http:<port> / <local"port>` then a `tailscale funnel <port> on`
for each service you want outside the network

For the deploy workflow i had to stop the tailscale service then do docker compose up then start it again.<BR>
This is because tailscale would not let go of the ports I need so i had to kill it first get the containers running then start it back up. A proper would would be great but couldn't find that at the time

#### Tailscale docs links<br>
* [General](https://tailscale.com/kb/start/)
* [Serve](https://tailscale.com/kb/1242/tailscale-serve/)
* [Https](https://tailscale.com/kb/1153/enabling-https/)

Commit message:

feature/SS2-107-smoker-deployment (#70)
* first test run

* typo in workflows

* ??

* adjust electron compose and backend now shares npm bootstrap

* no node_moduels in backend and added sudo to smoker-deploy

* adjusted compose up cmd and changed display var to string

* try again lolz

* added env.prod to docker continater

* all working but electron deploy?

* works locally

* restart always removed tailscale kill and start

* add xhost command to compose file

* add remove container after deploy and moved xhost thing to pi

* changed to docker system prune

* electron wait for ready

* attempt smoker action paraelle

* fixed delpoy needs

* added needs setup to build

* test cache node moduals

* pull npm install out to seperate workflow

* add cloud to build process

* added depends_on in smoker docker compose

* removed condition for depens_on

* typo

* added healthcheck and health condition

* clean up smoker deploy

* added eletron splash page

* removed splash screen

* added loading page and timeout for frontend urlk

* fixed loading page showing

* copy electron files to docker container

* attempt reloading url to succeful

* improve smoker deployment

* adding watchtower to smoker

* test watchtower auto pulling new container

* deploy smoker manully and let watchtower handle new containers

* put github action flow back

docs/cidi.md, after:

# Overview



### Docker commands

* From base folder build and push test smoker image 
* must do a npm run build first for smoker
* ` docker build -f apps/smoker/Dockerfile --platform linux/arm/v7  -t benjr70/smart_smoker:smokerTest .`
* ` docker push benjr70/smart_smoker:smokerTest`

* pull and run smoker image on pi
* `docker pull benjr70/smart_smoker:smokerTest`
* `docker run -p 8080:8080 benjr70/smart_smoker:smokerTest`

* From base folder build and push test device service image 
* ` docker build -f apps/device-service/Dockerfile --platform linux/arm/v7  -t benjr70/smart_smoker:device-serviceTest .`
* ` docker push benjr70/smart_smoker:device-serviceTest`

* pull and run device service on pi
* `docker pull benjr70/smart_smoker:device-serviceTest`
* `docker run --privileged  --device=/dev/ttyUSB0 -p 3000:3000 benjr70/smart_smoker:device-serviceTest`


### Container deployment

Containers for the smoker is handled by watchtower. When a new container is push to docker hub watchertower will see that pull is down and replace the only one on the smoker. The delpoyment workflow is set for a manually trigger. This wil have to be used when there is an update to `smoker.docker-compose.yml` or `smoker-deploy.yml` 

Watchtower settings can be seen in the `smoker.docker-compose.yml` 

Containers for the cloud is still deploy via github action workflows

### Network

Using Tailscale to manage my network, this provides a private internal network for all devices. 

Tailscale creates the ssl cert and key and also serves the sites
I used the tailscale funnel feature to expose the frontend and backend to the broad web for the cloud app
that url is https://smokecloud.tail74646.ts.net for the frontend and https://smokecloud.tail74646.ts.net:8443 for the backend

use command tailscale funnel status should result in this output if correctly set up

    ubuntu@ubuntu:/etc/nginx/sites-available$ sudo tailscale funnel status

    # Funnel on:
    #     - https://smokecloud.tail74646.ts.net
    #     - https://smokecloud.tail74646.ts.net:8443

    https://smokecloud.tail74646.ts.net (Funnel on)
    |-- / proxy http://127.0.0.1:80

    https://smokecloud.tail74646.ts.net:8443 (Funnel on)
    |-- / proxy http://127.0.0.1:3001

To get there you must to a `tailscale serve http:<port> / <local"port>` then a `tailscale funnel <port> on`
for each service you want outside the network

For the deploy workflow i had to stop the tailscale service then do docker compose up then start it again.<BR>
This is because tailscale would not let go of the ports I need so i had to kill it first get the containers running then start it back up. A proper would would be great but couldn't find that at the time

#### Tailscale docs links<br>
* [General](https://tailscale.com/kb/start/)
* [Serve](https://tailscale.com/kb/1242/tailscale-serve/)
* [Https](https://tailscale.com/kb/1153/enabling-https/)
