docs/index.md, before:

# Welcome

This is the documentation for the Smart Smoker system. This a full stack solution for tracking meat smoking receipts prep, and temperatures. This app has 4 main components as follows, Backend, cloud-frontend, device-service, smoker-frontend. Database for this project uses mongoBD<br>

[agile/ jira board link](https://smartsmokerv2.atlassian.net/jira/software/projects/SS2/boards/1)<br>
[figma link](https://www.figma.com/file/CMoUqq5JztkckkR3bkKhRe/Smart-Smoker-v2-UI?type=design&node-id=4-0&mode=design&t=oSKKdeh8lHfDtact-0) (This is very out dated)
## Getting Started

This project uses npm workspaces for all its apps, therefore you can install all apps at once. <br>

pre-requisite to install

 * `node v16`
 * `npm v8`

run this cmd from the base folder of the repo <br>
`npm run bootstrap` 

This should install all apps in the project. To run each one please see appropriate tab above
running each app locally should all connect and run together without extra config

## Project layout

    mkdocs.yml          # The configuration file.
    docs/
        index.md        # The documentation homepage.
        ...             # Other markdown pages, images and other files.
    apps/
        backend/        # umm this is the backend
        device-service/ # handles pi devices example. serial port, wifi
        frontend/       # frontend for cloud app
        smoker/         # frontend for pi on smoker
    MicroController/    # arduino file
    .github/
        workflows/      # github action workflows


## Dev/Git Requirements

Branch naming
* names start with either feature/bug/hotfix
* then has jira number example SS2-14
* then has name of card
* example feature/SS2-14-login

all changes must come from a separate branch and merged to master via a PR. 
DO NOT COMMIT STRAIGHT TO MASTER

PR Requirments
* must be rebase off of latest master
* all PR's must have Ben Approval before being merged

Commit message:

feature/all-in-one-run-script (#85)
* add root level start for all apps

* added this to docs

docs/index.md, after:

# Welcome

This is the documentation for the Smart Smoker system. This a full stack solution for tracking meat smoking receipts prep, and temperatures. This app has 4 main components as follows, Backend, cloud-frontend, device-service, smoker-frontend. Database for this project uses mongoBD<br>

[agile/ jira board link](https://smartsmokerv2.atlassian.net/jira/software/projects/SS2/boards/1)<br>
[figma link](https://www.figma.com/file/CMoUqq5JztkckkR3bkKhRe/Smart-Smoker-v2-UI?type=design&node-id=4-0&mode=design&t=oSKKdeh8lHfDtact-0) (This is very out dated)
## Getting Started

This project uses npm workspaces for all its apps, therefore you can install all apps at once. <br>

pre-requisite to install

 * `node v16`
 * `npm v8`

run this cmd from the base folder of the repo <br>
`npm run bootstrap` 

This should install all apps in the project. To run each one please see appropriate tab above
running each app locally should all connect and run together without extra config

or to run all apps locally run run `npm run start` in the root folder. This will app all app in one terminal
note you must have a local mongo DS instance running for the backend to boot

## Project layout

    mkdocs.yml          # The configuration file.
    docs/
        index.md        # The documentation homepage.
        ...             # Other markdown pages, images and other files.
    apps/
        backend/        # umm this is the backend
        device-service/ # handles pi devices example. serial port, wifi
        frontend/       # frontend for cloud app
        smoker/         # frontend for pi on smoker
    MicroController/    # arduino file
    .github/
        workflows/      # github action workflows


## Dev/Git Requirements

Branch naming
* names start with either feature/bug/hotfix
* then has jira number example SS2-14
* then has name of card
* example feature/SS2-14-login

all changes must come from a separate branch and merged to master via a PR. 
DO NOT COMMIT STRAIGHT TO MASTER

PR Requirments
* must be rebase off of latest master
* all PR's must have Ben Approval before being merged
